Release Notes                                                    11.10.2011

activeTAPI.COM-DyNav_v2011.3_Setup.msi
  installs activeTAPI.COM-DyNav v2011.3


The NAV objects are based on NAV 2009 R2 and were developed with
Build 32146.


The follwing changes were made in Navision:
  Version-Code: AT2011 and AT2011.3


1) Role tailored Client (RTC)

The biggest change in Version 2011 is the integration of activeTAPI into the 
RTC. This was a real challenge.

What you see first, is that pages are now available for activeTAPI.

But: The RTC is not able to receive local events. That's why we had to do a lot 
of programming outside of NAV. Now the RTC is able to receive local telefonie 
events !
The trick or the method is a page (56785 "Page with timer"), that runs in the 
background of the RTC. This page receives the events through an Timmer-AddIn.
If you want to change the timer time, you can do that in Page 56785
in the OnOpenPage-Trigger. Actually you find there:
  timer := '30';
The unit is 1/10 sec. So if you want the timer to act every 2 seconds,
change the line to 
  timer := '20';
Try to find a good compromise between quick reaction (shorter time) and
system load (longer time).

At first you have to register the Timer-AddIn (see separat documentation 
"Getting started" (chapter 3.1).

To start the timer-page with every call of the RTC, in the properties of 
the RTC-Desktop Icon please add after the programm call 
... \Microsoft.Dynamics.Nav.Client.exe" "DynamicsNAV:////RunPage?Page=56785"
This will start the RTC and the Page with timer. You can do that for every user. 
If the user is not working with activeTAPI, the Timer-page will close 
directly after opening.

As we are working with two different clients, we had to rearrange some code,
so it can be used by both clients.

The telephonie-Events are now handled in Codeunit 56780 TAPI functions.
the handling is called from Codeunit 56781 TAPI Main for the Classic 
Client and from Page 56785 "Page with Timer" for the RTC.

We used the oppotunity, to delete old Code (f.e. for NAV 2.60). 

It is not possible, to change the code behind the Telephone-Icons (behind
the Phone No.-fields). Therefore we had to use a trick: We used the 
OnAssistEdit-Trigger.
Thats why you don't see the Telephone-Symbol, but 3 points. If you click 
on the 3 points, NAV dials.

In the RTC, the Setup of the TAPI-Users is the same as in the past. 
You find all the Telephony menu options in "Departments".

Some hints:

a) In the List Pages (Customer, Vendor, Contact) there is a new Page Action "Dial". 
It dials the main number ("Phone No.") of the actual line.
If you want to dial another number, you must call the page and then click on the
3 points (Assist Edit) behind the desired number.

b) In the Pages "End of Call in" and "End of Call out" you have the possibilty, 
to input informations for the actual call (reference, note).
If you close the page by clicking the Close-Button, this information will not be 
written to the TAPI Log. If you want to write the information to the TAPI Log,
please choose Action "Done".

c) If you receive telephony events, you should NEVER have both clients open:
Because both clients receive the same event with the same GUID and if they try 
to write to TAPI log, you will get an error message: Record already exists.


2) Tracing

Since the beginning of activeTAPI, you had the possibility to trace actions 
in Navision to a log-file called "Navi_log.txt" in the LogFiles directory 
of activeTAPI.
Now we changed the tool to AppTrace. You find some examples for tracing in
Codeunits 1, 56780, 56781 and 56783.


3) Log internal calls

In the TAPI Setup you have to the possibility to decide, if you want to
"Log internal calls" or not.


4) Older Versions of NAV

In the future we will have two versions of activeTAPI:
- activeTAPI-DyNAV v2009   for all NAV versions up to 2009 R2 without RTC
- activeTAPI-DyNAV v2011   for all NAV versions from 2009 SP1 with CC and RTC


5) Known Issues

Pages do not have a MinimizeOnOpen-Property. Therefore Page 56785 "Page with Timer" 
is allways opened and must be minimized manually.


6) Feed back

We hope you enjoy the new version. Don't hesitate to give us hints, proposals, ...


Best regards
M. Gertz
